So it's also very important to know about the basics of file structure, of an Android application.
So on this lecture, some important files and folders and their significance will.
Well, we'll go over so that you can easily understand the Android studio work environment.
So Android studio is the official Integrated Development Environment, or IDY, for Android app development,
Android Studio provides the fastest possible turnaround on your coding and running workflow.
Now, throughout the course, we will be using Android studio mostly as an Android emulator, so this
Android emulator simulates Android devices on your computer so that you can test your applications on
a variety of devices and Android API levels without needing to have, you know, several physical devices
scattered across your desk.
My desk gets smaller and smaller every day.
No, I won't show you a picture of it.
So the emulator provides almost all of the capabilities of a real Android device.
So it's definitely worth a look.
However, we need to install it first.
So I want you to find your favorite browser search for Android studio.
And the first website is indeed the official website of Android studio.
So just click on it.
Scroll down a little bit and quickly browse for the features and.
OK, so here you see the layout editor, so this enables you to quickly build layouts by dragging UI
elements into a visual design editor instead of writing layout SML by hand.
Android studio also includes APK Analyzer.
And this provides immediate insight into the composition of an epic after the build process complete.
Using the APK analyzer can reduce the time while debugging issues with decs files and resources within
and out.
It also will help you reduce an epic size.
Now, like you said before, it's thanks to the Emulator feature that you can simulate incoming phone
calls and text messages, specify the location of the device, simulate hardware sensors, access the
Google Play store and, well, just about anything you can think of.
Android studio also has a flexible build system and real time profiler's.
Now, scroll down a little bit more.
And here are the Android studio download files.
So you can download it here depending on your operating system.
And here you can download the package suitable for your particular operating system.
So these are the system requirements to use Android studio.
So as you've read it through a little bit, let's go ahead and download.
And, of course, before downloading will agree to terms and conditions.
Click on download and save the file.
OK, so now we just wait a little bit.
And it is now downloaded so we can click on the downloaded disk file.
And I'll move it to the application folder.
And this is good, so insulation is now complete.
OK, so go ahead and open the Android studio.
And there's a couple of steps we need to step through to get set up.
Next.
I'll choose the standard type next.
So I do like dark theme and next.
These are the installation settings, so let's review them.
And it all looks good to me, so let's go ahead and quick finish.
Now it's downloading the components.
And you might need to allow little time for the insulation.
All right, so now I've got to allow some extensions from the security preferences.
Use password or fingerprint and allow from here.
Now we can lock the changes.
OK, so insulation is complete.
Let's go ahead and open it.
OK, let's create a new project.
There are project templates for phones, tablets, where OS, TV, automotive, you can choose one of
them depending on the platform that you want to use.
And I'm just going to select a basic activity template for phones.
Click next.
And let's name the application that we're going to develop.
So this is a package name and default save location.
You can choose Java or Katlin as a programming language.
So like I said before, we can use Android eight, Orio, Android nine, PAE or Android 10.
So what I'm going to do is select Android nine and finish.
Yeah, we can go ahead and skip the tips for now.
All right, so now on the left hand side, there is the file structure of the application.
To explain the most important ones briefly.
First of all, have a look at the main folders.
OK, so you see how they are manifest Java Reds and gradable scripts.
So here, Android manifest, XM Alfond.
So let me explain that every project Android includes a manifest file stored in the root directory of
its project hierarchy.
Manifest file is an important part of our app because it defines the structure and metadata of our application,
its components and its requirements.
His file includes notes for each of the activities, services, content providers and broadcast receiver
that makes the applications and while using content filters and permissions.
Determines how they coordinate with each other and other applications.
So this is what makes it all possible.
And we arrive at the Java folder.
The Java folder contains the Java source code files.
These files are used as a controller for a controlled UI or layout file.
It gets the data from the loud file, and after processing the data output will be shown in the UI layout.
So it works on the back end of an Android application, basically.
The next one is a drawable file under the Reds folder.
A drawable folder contains resource type files that can be drawn.
Draw bulls may take a variety of files like bitmap PMG, jpeg nine, patch vector, XML shape, layered
slates, levels, scale.
So why don't we have a look at the layout?
A layout defines the visual structure for user interface, such as the UI for an Android application.
This folder store's layout files that are written in the language XML.
You can always add additional layout objects or widgets as child elements to gradually build a view
hierarchy that defines your layout file.
Another folder is Mitta Map.
And it contains the image asset file that can be used in Android studio applications.
You can generate the following icon types like launcher icons, action bar and TAB icons and notification
icons.
And navigation graph is a resource file that contains all of your destinations and actions.
The graph represents all of your apps, navigation paths.
Now, here's the colors dot XML file, so it contains color resources of Android applications.
Different color values are identified by a unique name that can be used in the Android application program.
And then finally, we come upon the build that gradle module app file, and this defines the module
specific build configurations.
And here you can add dependencies that you need in your Android application.